.\" Project   : tin
.\" Module    : tin.5
.\" Author    : U. Janssen
.\" Created   : 2000-07-10
.\" Updated   : 2001-08-30
.\" Notes     : needs a lot of work
.\"
.TH tin 5 "August 30th, 2001" "1.5.10" "A Usenet newsreader"

.SH NAME
tin, rtin \- related files

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manpage describes the various config files and their formats used by
the
.BR tin (1)
newsreader.

.SH FILES
.\" TODO: mention .article[.$$], .cancel[.$$], .letter[.$$]?
.PP
.IR $MAILCAPS
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.mailcap
.br
.IR /etc/mailcap
.br
.IR /usr/etc/mailcap
.br
.IR /usr/local/etc/mailcap
.br
.IR /etc/mail/mailcap
.sp
.RS
.BR mailcap (4)
files as defined in \fBRFC1524\fP. The Mailcap files are read by
.BR tin (1)
to determine how to display non-text messages at the local site. Any line
that starts with "#" is a comment. Blank lines are ignored. Otherwise, each
line defines a single mailcap entry for a single content type. Long lines
may be continued by ending them with a backslash character, "\\".
.sp
Each individual mailcap entry consists of a content-type specification, a
command to execute, and (possibly) a set of optional "flag" values.
.sp
The "type" field is simply any legal content type name. It is the string
that will be matched against the "Content-Type" header to decide if this is
the mailcap entry that matches the current message. Additionally, the type
field may specify a subtype or a wildcard to match all subtypes.
.sp
The "command" field is any UNIX command and is used to specify the
interpreter for the given type of message. It will be passed to the shell
via the
.BR system (3)
facility.
.sp
Semicolons and backslashes within the command or any flag field must be
quoted with backslashes. If the field contains "%s", those two characters
will be replaced by the name of a file that contains the body of the
message. If it contains "%t", those two characters will be replaced by the
content-type field, including the subtype, if any. If it contains "%{"
followed by a parameter name and a closing "}", then all those characters
will be replaced by the value of the named parameter, if any, from the
Content-Type header. Finally, if the field contains "\\%", those two
characters will be replaced by a single "%" character.
.\"
.\" Two special codes can appear in the viewing command for objects of type
.\" multipart (any subtype). These are "%n" and "%F". %n will be replaced by
.\" the number of parts within the multipart object. %F will be replaced by a
.\" series of arguments, two for each part, giving first the content-type and
.\" then the name of the temporary file where the decoded part has been stored.
.\"
.sp
Besides the type and command field the following "flags" are defined:
.TP
.B compose
The "compose" field may be used to specify a program that can be used to
compose a new body or body part in the given format. Its intended use is to
support mail composing agents that support the composition of multiple types
of mail using external composing agents. As with the view-command, the
semantics of program execution are operating system dependent. The result of
the composing program may be data that is not yet suitable for mail
transport - that is, a Content-Transfer-Encoding may need to be applied to
the data.
.TP
.B composetyped
The "composetyped" field is similar to the "compose" field, but is to be
used when the composing program needs to specify the Content-Type header
field to be applied to the composed data. The "compose" field is simpler,
and is preferred for use with existing (non-mail-oriented) programs for
composing data in a given format. The "composetyped" field is necessary when
the Content-Type information must include auxiliary parameters, and the
composition program must then know enough about mail formats to produce
output that includes the mail type information.
.TP
.B edit
The "edit" field may be used to specify a program that can be used to edit a
body or body part in the given format. In many cases, it may be identical
in content to the "compose" field, and shares the operating-system dependent
semantics for program execution.
.TP
.B print
The "print" field may be used to specify a program that can be used to print
a message or body part in the given format. As with the view-command, the
semantics of program execution are operating system dependent.
.TP
.B test
The "test" field may be used to test some external condition (e.g., the
machine architecture, or the window system in use) to determine whether or
not the mailcap line applies. It specifies a program to be run to test some
condition. The semantics of execution and of the value returned by the test
program are operating system dependent. If the test fails, a subsequent
mailcap entry should be sought. Multiple test fields are not permitted -
since a test can call a program, it can already be arbitrarily complex.
.TP
.B needsterminal
The "needsterminal" field indicates that the view-command must be run on an
interactive terminal. This is needed to inform window- oriented user agents
that an interactive terminal is needed. (The decision is not left
exclusively to the view-command because in some circumstances it may not be
possible for such programs to tell whether or not they are on interactive
terminals.) The needsterminal command should be assumed to apply to the
compose and edit commands, too, if they exist. Note that this is NOT a test
- it is a requirement for the environment in which the program will be
executed, and should typically cause the creation of a terminal window when
not executed on either a real terminal or a terminal window.
.TP
.B copiousoutput
The "copiousoutput" field indicates that the output from the view-command
will be an extended stream of output, and is to be interpreted as advice to
the UA (User Agent mail-reading program) that the output should be either
paged or made scroll-able. Note that it is probably a mistake if
needsterminal and copiousoutput are both specified.
.TP
.B description
The "description" field simply provides a textual description, optionally
quoted, that describes the type of data, to be used optionally by mail
readers that wish to describe the data before offering to display it.
.TP
.B textualnewlines
The "textualnewlines" field, if set to any non-zero value, indicates that
this type of data is line-oriented and that, if encoded in base64, all
newlines should be converted to canonical form (CRLF) before encoding, and
will be in that form after decoding. In general, this field is needed only
if there is line-oriented data of some type other than text/* or non-line-
oriented data that is a subtype of text.
.TP
.B x11-bitmap
The "x11-bitmap" field names a file, in X11 bitmap (xbm) format, which
points to an appropriate icon to be used to visually denote the presence of
this kind of data.
.TP
.B nametemplate
The "nametemplate" field gives a file name format, in which %s will be
replaced by a short unique string to give the name of the temporary file to
be passed to the viewing command. This is only expected to be relevant in
environments where filename extensions are meaningful, e.g., one could
specify that a GIF file being passed to a gif viewer should have a name
ending in ".gif" by using "nametemplate=%s.gif"
.PP
.BR tin (1)
currently only respects the "test", "description", "nametemplate" and partly
the "needsterminal" flags, all other flags are internally ignored. It also
can't handle the "%F" and "%n" expansions yet.
.TP
Example:
.RS
.nf
# mailcap file example
.br
image/*;\\
.br
.in +.3i
xv -8 -geometry +0 '%s';\\
.br
description=%{name} %t-Image;\\
.br
test=test "$DISPLAY" \\
.br
nametemplate=%s.IMAGE
.in -.3i
.sp
message/rfc822;\\
.br
.in +.3i
if test -x /usr/bin/less \\;\\
.in +.3i
then less '%s' \\;\\
else more '%s' \\; fi;\\
.in -.3i
.br
edit=${EDITOR-vi} '%s';\\
.br
compose=${EDITOR-vi} '%s';\\
.br
print=a2ps %s;\\
.br
needsterminal
.in -.3i
.fi
.RE
.RE
.PP

.IR /etc/nntpserver
.sp
.RS
default NNTP-server to read news from if not reading from the local spool.
'\fB-g\fP \fIserver\fR', \fB$NNTPSERVER\fP and a given default at compile
time have higher priority (in that order) and override any server
specified \fI/etc/nntpserver\fR.
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.cancelsecret
.sp
.RS
secret to be used for canlocks
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.mime.types
.br
.IR /etc/mime.types
.br
.IR /etc/tin/mime.types
.sp
.RS
mime type / filename extension pairs
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.newsauth
.sp
.RS
"\fInntpserver\fR \fIpassword\fR [\fIuser\fR]" pairs for NNTP servers
that require authorization. Any line that starts with "#" is a comment.
Blank lines are ignored. This file should be readable only for the user as
it contains the users uncrypted password for reading news!
.TP
.B nntpserver
full qualified domain name of the newsserver.
.TP
.B password
users uncrypted password for reading news.
.TP
.B user
username on the newsserver if it differs from the local login. this field is
optional.
.TP
Example:
.RS
# sample .newsauth file
.br
news.example.org  example
.br
news.example.net  news      guest
.RE
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.newsrc
.sp
.RS
"\fInewsgroup\fR\fIflag\fR [\fIarticle\fR[,\fIarticle\fR | -\fIarticle\fR]...]" lines.
.TP
.B newsgroup
the name of the newgroup.
.TP
.B flag
a flag indicating if the group is subscribed ':' or not '!'.
.TP
.B article
range of allready read articles from that group; numbers separated by commas
with sequential numbers collapsed with hyphens.
.TP
Example:
.RS
# sample .newsrc file
.br
news.software.b! 1-666,669
.br
news.software.nntp: 1-13245,13247,13249
.br
news.software.readers: 1-19567,19571-19597
.RE
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.oldnewsrc
.sp
.RS
backup of \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.newsrc\fR
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.signature
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.Sig
.sp
.RS
signature
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.sigfixed
.sp
.RS
fixed part of a randomly generated signature
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/.inputhistory
.sp
.RS
history of last used strings
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_INDEX_MAILDIR-"${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.mail/
.sp
.RS
mailgroups index files
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_INDEX_NEWSDIR-"${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.news/
.sp
.RS
newsgroups index files
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_INDEX_SAVEDIR-"${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin"}/.save/
.sp
.RS
saved newsgroups index files
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/active.mail
.sp
.RS
active file ("\fImail_group_name\fR \fImaxnum\fR \fIminnum\fR
\fImailspool\fR"-pairs) of user's mailgroups (requires
.BR tin (1)
to be build with mh-mail-handling support).
.TP
.B mail_group_name
must be the pathname of the mailbox relative to field #4 with / changed to .
.TP
.B maxnum
just put a large number here, something higher than the highest message in
the mailbox
.TP
.B minnum
put 0 here
.TP
.B mailspool
path of mail spool directory. This must be the full pathname to the root of
the mail folder area.
.TP
Example:
.RS
Mail.inbox  12345 00000 /home/foo
.br
Mail.outbox 23456 00000 /home/foo
.RE
.sp
This allows access to the 'inbox' and 'outbox' folders of user foo.
They are accessed via /home/foo/Mail/inbox and /home/foo/Mail/outbox
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/active.save
.sp
.RS
active file of user's saved newsgroups, used by \fBtin -R\fP.
.RE
.PP

.\" tin uses inns old (pre 2.x) Path convention.
.\" as with inn >= 2.2.x getting more and more popular
.\" we should think about checking for the new Paths
.\" (described shown below) and/or place tin only related global
.\" config files to TIN_DEFAULTS_DIR (/etc/tin/)
.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/etc"}/attributes
.sp
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/attributes
.sp
.RS
The group attributes files may be used to override some global settings from
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR on a per group basis. Order is
important as last match counts; this allows to refine attributes for
narrowed scopes. Note that the \fIscope=<grouplist>\fR line has to be
specified before the attributes are specified for that list. All attributes
are set to a reasonable default so you only have to specify the attribute
that you want to change. All toggle attributes are set by specifying ON/OFF.
Otherwise, they function exactly as their global equivalents. The following
group attributes are available:
.TP
.B scope
This changes the list of groups to which the attributes that follow will be
applied. See the section NEWSGROUP LISTS & WILDCARDS in
.BR tin (1)
for the types of pattern that can be used here.
.TP
.B maildir
Identical to the tinrc variable \fBdefault_maildir\fP
.TP
.B savedir
Identical to the tinrc variable \fBdefault_savedir\fP
.TP
.B savefile
.TP
.B organization
This can be used to set the article header field ''Organization:''. It
overrides the setting (if any) of organization in
\fI/etc/tin/tin.defaults\fR and \fB$ORGANIZATION\fP (or \fB$NEWSORG\fP on
Apollo DomainOS). Note that some newsserver might still overwrite the
''Organization:''-header.
.TP
.B from
Identical to the tinrc variable \fBmail_address\fP
.TP
.B sigfile
The path that specifies the signature file to use when posting, following
up to or replying to an article. If the path is a directory then the
signature will be randomly generated from files that are in the specified
directory. If the path starts with a ! the programm the path points to will
be executed to generate a signature. --none will surpress any signature.
.TP
.B followup_to
.TP
.B printer
.TP
.B auto_select
.TP
.B auto_save
Identical to the tinrc variable of the same name
.TP
.B batch_save
Can be used to override the global setting in tinrc on a
per group basis. For more information read section AUTOMATIC MAILING AND
SAVING NEW NEWS in
.BR tin (1).
.TP
.B delete_tmp_files
If this is set to ON, then saved article files that have been post-processed
will be automatically deleted. If set to OFF, you will be prompted as to
whether to delete each file in turn. Note that automatic processing of
Tagged articles using 'S' will also suppress promting.
.TP
.B show_only_unread
Identical to the tinrc variable of the same name
.TP
.B thread_arts
Identical to the tinrc variable \fBthread_articles\fP
.TP
.B show_author
Identical to the tinrc variable of the same name
.TP
.B sort_art_type
Identical to the tinrc variable \fBsort_article_type\fP
.TP
.B sort_threads_type
Identical to the tinrc variable \fBsort_threads_type\fP
.TP
.B post_proc_type
Identical to the tinrc variable \fBpost_process_type\fP
.TP
.B mailing_list
Used when a group is a mailing list. All responses to the group will be
directed to this email address instead
.TP
.B x_headers
A list of headers that will be automatically added when posting
.TP
.B x_body
A piece of text that will be added at the start of a message body. If this
string starts with a / or ~ then it is assumed to be the name of a file
containing the text to insert.
.TP
.B quick_kill_scope
.TP
.B quick_kill_expire
.TP
.B quick_kill_case
.TP
.B quick_kill_header
.TP
.B quick_select_scope
.TP
.B quick_select_expire
.TP
.B quick_select_case
.TP
.B quick_select_header
.TP
.B x_comment_to
.TP
.B news_quote_format
Identical to the tinrc variable of the same name
.TP
.B quote_chars
Identical to the tinrc variable of the same name
.TP
.B ispell
.PP
.TP
Example:
.RS
.nf
# include extra headers
scope=*
x_headers=~/.tin/headers

# in *sources* set post process type to shar
scope=*sources*
post_proc_type=1

# in *binaries* set post process type to uudecode
# remove tmp files and set Followup-To: poster
scope=*binaries*
post_proc_type=2
delete_tmp_files=ON
followup_to=poster

# in fido.* newsgroups change quote_chars
# and add X-Comment-To: line
scope=fido.*
quote_chars=%s>_
x_comment_to=ON

# in *.test newsgroups, don't append signature
# and preset Subject
scope=*.test
sigfile=--none
x_headers=Subject: test - ignore - no reply
.fi
.RE
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/filter
.sp
.RS
filter file
.RE
.PP

.IR /etc/tin/keymap
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/keymap${${LC_ALL-"${LC_CTYPE-"${LC_MESSAGES-"$LANG"}"}"}:+".${LC_ALL-"${LC_CTYPE-"${LC_MESSAGES-"$LANG"}"}"}"}
.\" sorry that one got a bit complex ,-)
.sp
.RS
Keymap-file, containing "\fIkeyname\fR \fIvalue\fR" pairs.
Below is a list of all keynames and their default bindings.
.sp
.nf
.ta \w'GroupSelThdIfUnreadSelected    'u +\w'SPACE'u
\fBPageDown3\fP	SPACE
\fBShellEscape\fP	!
\fBSetRange\fP	#
\fBLastPage\fP	$
\fBToggleColor\fP	&
\fBLastViewed\fP	-
\fBSearchSubjF\fP	/
\fBSearchSubjB\fP	?
\fBSearchAuthB\fP	A
\fBSearchBody\fP	B
\fBToggleHelpDisplay\fP	H
\fBToggleInverseVideo\fP	I
\fBLookupMessage\fP	L
\fBOptionMenu\fP	M
\fBPostponed2\fP	O
\fBQuitTin\fP	Q
\fBDisplayPostHist\fP	W
\fBFirstPage\fP	^
\fBSearchAuthF\fP	a
\fBPageUp3\fP	b
\fBHelp\fP	h
\fBToggleInfoLastLine\fP	i
\fBDown2\fP	j
\fBUp2\fP	k
\fBPrint\fP	o
\fBQuit\fP	q
\fBVersion\fP	v
\fBPost\fP	w
\fBPipe\fP	|
\fBPageUp\fP	^B
\fBPageDown\fP	^D
\fBPageDown2\fP	^F
\fBRedrawScr\fP	^L
\fBDown\fP	^N
\fBPostponed\fP	^O
\fBUp\fP	^P
\fBPageUp2\fP	^U
.sp
\fBConfigSelect\fP	^J
\fBConfigSelect2\fP	^M
\fBConfigLastPage2\fP	G
\fBConfigNoSave\fP	Q
\fBConfigFirstPage2\fP	g
.sp
\fBFeedTag\fP	T
\fBFeedArt\fP	a
\fBFeedHot\fP	h
\fBFeedPat\fP	p
\fBFeedRepost\fP	r
\fBFeedSupersede\fP	s
\fBFeedThd\fP	t
.sp
\fBFilterEdit\fP	e
\fBFilterSave\fP	s
.sp
\fBGroupAutoSel\fP	^A
\fBGroupNextUnreadArtOrGrp\fP	TAB
\fBGroupReadBasenote\fP	^J
\fBGroupKill\fP	^K
\fBGroupReadBasenote2\fP	^M
\fBGroupSelThd\fP	*
\fBGroupDoAutoSel\fP	+
\fBGroupToggleThdSel\fP	.
\fBGroupSelThdIfUnreadSelected\fP	;
\fBGroupSelPattern\fP	=
\fBGroupReverseSel\fP	@
\fBGroupCatchupNextUnread\fP	C
\fBGroupEditFilter\fP	E
\fBGroupToggleGetartLimit\fP	G
\fBGroupMarkThdRead\fP	K
\fBGroupNextUnreadArt\fP	N
\fBGroupPrevUnreadArt\fP	P
\fBGroupBugReport\fP	R
\fBGroupAutoSaveTagged\fP	S
\fBGroupTagParts\fP	T
\fBGroupUntag\fP	U
\fBGroupMarkUnselArtRead\fP	X
\fBGroupMarkThdUnread\fP	Z
\fBGroupQuickAutoSel\fP	[
\fBGroupQuickKill\fP	]
\fBGroupCatchup\fP	c
\fBGroupToggleSubjDisplay\fP	d
\fBGroupGoto\fP	g
\fBGroupListThd\fP	l
\fBGroupMail\fP	m
\fBGroupNextGroup\fP	n
\fBGroupPrevGroup\fP	p
\fBGroupToggleReadUnread\fP	r
\fBGroupSave\fP	s
\fBGroupTag\fP	t
\fBGroupToggleThreading\fP	u
\fBGroupRepost\fP	x
\fBGroupMarkArtUnread\fP	z
\fBGroupUndoSel\fP	~
.sp
\fBHelpLastPage2\fP	G
\fBHelpFirstPage2\fP	g
.sp
\fBNrctblCreate\fP	c
\fBNrctblDefault\fP	d
\fBNrctblAlternative\fP	a
\fBNrctblQuit\fP	q
.sp
\fBPageAutoSel\fP	^A
\fBPageReplyQuoteHeaders\fP	^E
\fBPagePGPCheckArticle\fP	^G
\fBPageToggleHeaders\fP	^H
\fBPageNextUnread\fP	TAB
\fBPageNextThd\fP	^J
\fBPageAutoKill\fP	^K
\fBPageNextThd2\fP	^M
\fBPageToggleTabs\fP	^T
\fBPageFollowupQuoteHeaders\fP	^W
\fBPageToggleTex2iso\fP	"
\fBPageToggleRot\fP	%
\fBPageToggleUue\fP	(
\fBPageReveal\fP	)
\fBPageSkipIncludedText\fP	:
\fBPageTopThd\fP	<
\fBPageBotThd\fP	>
\fBPageCatchupNextUnread\fP	C
\fBPageCancel\fP	D
\fBPageEditFilter\fP	E
\fBPageFollowup\fP	F
\fBPageLastPage2\fP	G
\fBPageKillThd\fP	K
\fBPageNextUnreadArt\fP	N
\fBPagePrevUnreadArt\fP	P
\fBPageReply\fP	R
\fBPageAutoSaveTagged\fP	S
\fBPageGroupSel\fP	T
\fBPageViewUrl\fP	U
\fBPageViewAttach\fP	V
\fBPageMarkThdUnread\fP	Z
\fBPageQuickAutoSel\fP	[
\fBPageQuickKill\fP	]
\fBPageToggleHighlight\fP	_
\fBPageCatchup\fP	c
\fBPageEditArticle\fP	e
\fBPageFollowupQuote\fP	f
\fBPageFirstPage2\fP	g
\fBPageListThd\fP	l
\fBPageMail\fP	m
\fBPageNextArt\fP	n
\fBPagePrevArt\fP	p
\fBPageReplyQuote\fP	r
\fBPageSave\fP	s
\fBPageTag\fP	t
\fBPageGotoParent\fP	u
\fBPageRepost\fP	x
\fBPageMarkArtUnread\fP	z
.sp
\fBPgpEncSign\fP	b
\fBPgpEncrypt\fP	e
\fBPgpIncludekey\fP	i
\fBPgpSign\fP	s
.sp
\fBPostCancel\fP	d
\fBPostEdit\fP	e
\fBPostPGP\fP	g
\fBPostIspell\fP	i
\fBPostContinue\fP	c
\fBPostAbort\fP	a
\fBPostIgnore\fP	i
\fBPostMail\fP	m
\fBPostPost2\fP	y
\fBPostPost3\fP	p
\fBPostSend\fP	s
\fBPostSend2\fP	y
\fBPostSupersede\fP	s
\fBPostPostpone\fP	o
\fBPostponeOverride\fP	Y
\fBPostponeAll\fP	A
.sp
\fBPromptYes\fP	y
\fBPromptNo\fP	n
.sp
\fBSaveAppendFile\fP	a
\fBSaveOverwriteFile\fP	o
.sp
\fBPProcExtractZip\fP	E
\fBPProcListZip\fP	L
\fBPProcExtractZoo\fP	e
\fBPProcListZoo\fP	l
\fBPProcShar\fP	s
\fBPProcUUDecode\fP	u
\fBPProcNone\fP	n
.sp
\fBSelectEnterNextUnreadGrp\fP	TAB
\fBSelectReadGrp\fP	^J
\fBSelectReadGrp2\fP	^M
\fBSelectResetNewsrc\fP	^R
\fBSelectCatchupNextUnread\fP	C
\fBSelectNextUnreadGrp\fP	N
\fBSelectBugReport\fP	R
\fBSelectSubscribePat\fP	S
\fBSelectUnsubscribePat\fP	U
\fBSelectQuitNoWrite\fP	X
\fBSelectSyncWithActive\fP	Y
\fBSelectMarkGrpUnread2\fP	Z
\fBSelectCatchup\fP	c
\fBSelectToggleDescriptions\fP	d
\fBSelectGoto\fP	g
\fBSelectMoveGrp\fP	m
\fBSelectEnterNextUnreadGrp2\fP	n
\fBSelectToggleReadDisplay\fP	r
\fBSelectSubscribe\fP	s
\fBSelectUnsubscribe\fP	u
\fBSelectYankActive\fP	y
\fBSelectMarkGrpUnread\fP	z
.sp
\fBThreadReadNextArtOrThread\fP	TAB
\fBThreadReadArt\fP	^J
\fBThreadReadArt2\fP	^M
\fBThreadSelArt\fP	*
\fBThreadToggleArtSel\fP	.
\fBThreadReverseSel\fP	@
\fBThreadCatchupNextUnread\fP	C
\fBThreadMarkArtRead\fP	K
\fBThreadBugReport\fP	R
\fBThreadAutoSaveTagged\fP	S
\fBThreadUntag\fP	U
\fBThreadMarkThdUnread\fP	Z
\fBThreadCatchup\fP	c
\fBThreadToggleSubjDisplay\fP	d
\fBThreadMail\fP	m
\fBThreadSave\fP	s
\fBThreadTag\fP	t
\fBThreadMarkArtUnread\fP	z
\fBThreadUndoSel\fP	~
.fi
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/newsrctable
.sp
.RS
"\fInntpserver\fR \fInewsrc\fR [\fIshortname\fR [\fI...\fR]]"
pairs to use with the ''\fB-g\fP'' command-line switch.
.TP
.B nntpserver
full qualified domain name of the newsserver.
.TP
.B newsrc
related newsrc.
.TP
.B shortname
nickname(s) for the nntpserver.
.TP
Example:
.RS
# sample newsrctable file
.br
news.tin.org .newsrc-tin.org tinorg
.br
news.ka.nu /tmp/nrc-nu kanu nu
.RE
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/posted
.sp
.RS
posting history
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/postponed.articles
.sp
.RS
Pool of postponed articles. This file is in
.BR mbox (5)
format.
.RE
.PP

.\" tin uses inns old (pre 2.x) Path convention.
.\" as with inn >= 2.2.x getting more and more popular
.\" we should think about checking for the new Paths
.\" (described shown below) and/or place tin only related global
.\" config files to TIN_DEFAULTS_DIR (/etc/tin/)
.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/etc"}/tinrc
.br
.IR ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc
.sp
.RS
At startup,
.BR tin (1)
reads in the configuration file. This contains a list of
"\fIvariable\fR=\fIvalue\fR" pairs that can be used to configure the way
.BR tin (1)
works. If it exists, the global configuration file,
\fI${TIN_LIBDIR}-"/news/etc"}/tinrc\fR is read first. After that, the
users own configuration file \fI${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR is read.
The global file is useful for distributing system-wide defaults to new
users who have no private tinrc yet (see also \fB/etc/tin/tin.defaults\fP).
.TP
.B add_posted_to_filter
If ON add posted articles to filter for highlighting follow-ups.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B advertising
Turn ON advertising in header (''User-Agent:''). Default is ON.
.TP
.B alternative_handling
If ON strip multipart/alternative messages automatically.
.TP
.B art_marked_deleted
The character used to show that an article was deleted. Default is 'D'.
.TP
.B art_marked_inrange
The character used to show that an article is in a range. Default is '#'.
.TP
.B art_marked_return
The character used to show that an article will return as an unread article
when the group is next entered. Default is '-'.
.TP
.B art_marked_selected
The character used to show that an article/thread is auto-selected (hot).
Default is '*'.
.TP
.B art_marked_recent
The character used to show that an article/thread is recent (not older than
X days). See also \fBrecent_time\fP. Default is 'o'.
.TP
.B art_marked_unread
The character used to show that an article has not been read.
Default is '+'.
.TP
.B art_marked_read
The character used to show that an article was read. Default is ' '.
.TP
.B art_marked_killed
The character used to show that an article was killed. Default is 'K'.
\fBkill_level\fP must be set accordingly.
.TP
.B art_marked_read_selected
The character used to show that an article was hot before it was read.
Default is ':'. \fBkill_level\fP must be set accordingly.
.TP
.B ask_for_metamail
If ON
.BR tin (1)
will ask before using
.BR metamail (1)
to display MIME messages. This only occurs if \fBuse_metamail\fP is also
switched ON. Default is ON.
.TP
.B auto_bcc
If ON automatically put your name in the ''Bcc:'' field when mailing an
article. Default is OFF
.TP
.B auto_cc
If ON automatically put your name in the ''Cc:'' field when mailing an
article. Default is OFF
.TP
.B auto_list_thread
If ON automatically list thread when entering it using right arrow key.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B auto_save
If ON articles/threads with ''Archive-name:'' in header will be
automatically saved with the Archive-name & part/patch no and post processed
if \fBpost_proc_type\fP is not set to none (0). Default is OFF
.TP
.B batch_save
If set ON articles/threads will be saved in batch mode when save
''\fB-S\fP'' or mail ''\fB-M\fP, \fB-N\fP'' is specified on the command
line. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B beginner_level
If set ON a mini menu of the most useful commands will be displayed at the
bottom of the screen for each level. Also a short posting etiquette will be
displayed after composing an article. Default is ON.
.TP
.B cache_overview_files
If ON, create local copies of NNTP overview files. This can be used to
considerably speed up accessing large groups when using a slow connection.
.TP
.B catchup_read_groups
If set ON the user is asked when quitting if all groups read during the
current session should be marked read. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B col_back
Standard background color
.TP
.B col_from
Color of sender (From:)
.TP
.B col_head
Color of header-lines
.TP
.B col_help
Color of help pages
.TP
.B col_invers_bg
Color of background for inverse text
.TP
.B col_invers_fg
Color of foreground for inverse text
.TP
.B col_markdash
Color of words emphasised like _this_. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
.TP
.B col_markstar
Color of words emphasised like *this*. See also \fBword_h_display_marks\fP
.TP
.B col_minihelp
Color of mini help menu
.TP
.B col_newsheaders
Color of actual news header fields
.TP
.B col_normal
Standard foreground color
.TP
.B col_quote
Color of quoted lines
.TP
.B col_quote2
Color of twice quoted lines
.TP
.B col_quote3
Color of >=3 times quoted lines
.TP
.B col_response
Color of response counter. This is the text that says 'Response x of y' in
the article viewer.
.TP
.B col_signature
Color of signatures
.TP
.B col_subject
Color of article subject
.TP
.B col_text
Color of text-lines
.TP
.B col_title
Color of title text on all the menu screens
.TP
.B confirm_action
Ask for confirmation before executing certain dangerous commands (e.g.,
'c'atchup). Default is ON.
.TP
.B confirm_to_quit
If ON you will be asked to confirm that you wish to exit
.BR tin (1)
when you use the 'q' command. Default is ON.
.TP
.B default_art_search
.TP
.B default_author_search
.TP
.B default_config_search
The last article/author/config option that was searched for
.TP
.B default_editor_format
The format string used to create the editor start command with parameters.
Default is '%E +%N %F' (i.e., /bin/vi +7 .article).
.\" document %E %F %N
.TP
.B default_filter_days
Default is 28.
.TP
.B default_filter_kill_case
Defaults for quick (1 key) kill filter case. ON = filter case sensitive, OFF
= ignore case. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B default_filter_kill_expire
Defaults for quick (1 key) kill filter expire. ON = limit
to '\fBdefault_filter_days\fP', OFF = don't ever expire. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B default_filter_kill_global
Defaults for quick (1 key) kill filter global. ON=apply to all groups
OFF=apply to current group. Default is ON.
.TP
.B default_filter_kill_header
Defaults for quick (1 key) kill filter header.
0,1 = ''Subject:'', 2,3 = ''From:'', 4 = ''Message-Id:'' & full ''References:''
5 = ''Message-Id:'' & last ''References:'' entry only,
6 = ''Message-Id:'' entry only, 7 = ''Lines:''
.TP
.B default_filter_select_case
Defaults for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter case. ON=filter case
sensitive OFF=ignore case. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B default_filter_select_expire
Defaults for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter expire. ON = limit
to '\fBdefault_filter_days\fP', OFF = don't ever expire. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B default_filter_select_global
Defaults for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter global. ON=apply to all
groups OFF=apply to current group. Default is ON.
.TP
.B default_filter_select_header
Defaults for quick (1 key) auto-selection filter header.
0,1 = ''Subject:'', 2,3 = ''From:'', 4 = ''Message-Id:'' & full ''References:''
5 = ''Message-Id:'' & last ''References:'' entry only,
6 = ''Message-Id:'' entry only, 7 = ''Lines:''
.TP
.B default_goto_group
.TP
.B default_group_search
.TP
.B default_mail_address
.TP
.B default_maildir
The directory where articles/threads are to be saved in
.BR mbox (5)
format. This feature is mainly for use with the
.BR elm (1)
mail program. It allows the user to save articles/threads/groups simply
by giving '=' as the filename to save to. Default is \fI$HOME/Mail\fR.
.TP
.B default_mailer_format
The format string used to create the mailer command with parameters that is
used for mailing articles to other people. Default is '%M "%T" < %F' (i.e.,
/bin/mail "iain" < .article). The flexible format allows other mailers with
different command line parameters to be used such as 'elm -s "%S" "%T" <
"%F"' (i.e., elm -s "subject" "iain" < .article) or 'sendmail -oem -t < %F'
(i.e. sendmail -oem -t < .article).
.\" document %S %T %M %F...
.TP
.B default_move_group
.TP
.B default_pipe_command
.TP
.B default_post_newsgroups
.TP
.B default_post_subject
.TP
.B default_printer
The printer program with options that is to be used to print articles. The
default is
.BR lpr (1)
for BSD machines and
.BR lp (1)
for SysV machines. Printing from
.BR tin (1)
may have been disabled by the System Administrator.
.TP
.B default_range_group
.TP
.B default_range_select
.TP
.B default_range_thread
.TP
.B default_regex_pattern
.TP
.B default_repost_group
.TP
.B default_save_file
.TP
.B default_save_mode
.TP
.B default_savedir
Directory where articles/threads are saved. Default is \fI$HOME/News\fR.
.TP
.B default_select_pattern
.TP
.B default_shell_command
.TP
.B default_sigfile
The path that specifies the signature file to use when posting, following up
to or replying to an article. If the path is a directory then the signature
will be randomly generated from files that are in the specified directory.
Default is \fI$HOME/.Sig\fR.
.TP
.B default_subject_search
.TP
.B draw_arrow
Allows groups/articles to be selected by an arrow '->' if set ON or by an
highlighted bar if set OFF.
.TP
.B force_screen_redraw
Specifies whether a screen redraw should always be done after certain
external commands. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B full_page_scroll
If set ON then PageUp and PageDown move the cursor by a full page at a time,
otherwise movement is half a page at a time. Currently this has no effect in
the GLOBAL OPTIONS MENU.
.TP
.B getart_limit
If \fBuse_getart_limit\fP is ON and getart_limit is > 0 not more than
getart_limit articles/group are fetched from the server. If
\fBuse_getart_limit\fP is ON and getart_limit is < 0
.BR tin (1)
will start fetching articles from your first unread minus absolute value of
\fBgetart_limit\fP. Default is 0, which means no limit.
.TP
.B recent_time
If set to 0, this feature is deactivated, otherwise it means the number of
days. Default is 2.
.TP
.B group_catchup_on_exit
If ON catchup group when leaving with the left arrow key. Default is ON.
.TP
.B groupname_max_length
Maximum length of the names of newsgroups to be displayed so that more of
the newgroup description can be displayed. Default is 32.
.TP
.B hide_uue
If ON, then sections of uuencoded data will be shown with a single tag line
showing the size and filename (much the same as a MIME attachment).
Otherwise the raw uuencoded data is displayed. Default is OFF. This
behaviour can also be toggled in the article viewer.
.TP
.B info_in_last_line
If ON, show current group description or article subject in the last line
(not in the pager and global menu) - 'i' toggles setting. This facility is
useful as the full width of the screen is available to display long
subjects.
.TP
.B inverse_okay
If ON use inverse video for page headers at different levels. Default is ON.
.TP
.B keep_dead_articles
If ON keep all failed postings in \fI$HOME/dead.articles\fR besides keeping
the last failed posting in \fI$HOME/dead.article\fR. Default is ON.
.TP
.B keep_posted_articles
If ON keep all postings in \fI$HOME/Mail/posted\fR. Default is ON.
.TP
.B kill_level
This option controls the processing and display of articles that are killed.
There are 3 options: 0 (default) is the 'traditional' behaviour of
.BR tin (1).
Only unread articles are killed once only by marking them read. Options 1
and 2 will process all articles in the group and therefore there is a
processing overhead when using them. Option 1 will thread killed articles as
normal but they will be marked with a 'K'. Option 2 simply does not display
killed articles.
.TP
.B mail_8bit_header
Allows 8bit characters unencoded in the header of mail message. Default is
OFF. Turning it ON is effective only if \fBmail_mime_encoding\fP is also set
to 8bit. Leaving it OFF is safe for most users and compliant to Internet
Mail Standard (\fBRFC2822\fP and \fBRFC2047\fP).
.TP
.B mail_address
User's mail address (and fullname), if not username@host. This is used when
creating articles, sending mail and when PGP signing.
.TP
.B mail_mime_encoding
MIME encoding of the body in mail message, if necessary (8bit, base64,
quoted-printable, 7bit) Default is 8bit and no encoding (or charset
conversion) is performed (i.e., local charset is used as it is). If set to
7bit, CJK text in 8bit encoding (EUC-CN, EUC-TW, EUC-JP, EUC-KR, Big5,
Shift_JIS) is supposed to be converted into ISO-2022-KR/JP/CN. Only EUC-KR
to ISO-2022-KR conversion has been implemented, however. Accordingly,
setting it to 7bit has no effect on MIME charsets/encodings other than
EUC-KR (Korean).
.TP
.B mail_quote_format
Format of quote line when replying (via mail) to an article (%A=Address,
%D=Date, %F=Addr+Name, %G=Groupname, %M=Message-Id, %N=Name). Default is "In
article %M you wrote:"
.TP
.B mark_saved_read
If ON mark articles that are saved as read. Default is ON.
.TP
.B mm_charset
Charset supported locally, which is also used for MIME header (charset
parameter and charset name in header encoding) in mail and news posting
unless local charset/encoding needs to be converted into other
charset/encoding as in case of EUC-KR which is converted to ISO-2022-KR if
\fBmail_mime_encoding\fP is set to 7bit. Possible values include ISO-8859-X
(where X is 1 to 16), EUC-JP, EUC-CN, EUC-KR, EUC-TW, Big5, Shift_JIS, and
so forth. If \fBMIME_STRICT_CHARSET\fP is defined at the compile time, text
in charset other than the value of this parameter is considered not
displayable and represented as '?'. Otherwise, all character sets are
regarded as compatible with the display. If it's not set, the value of the
environment variable \fB$MM_CHARSET\fP is used. US-ASCII or compile-time
default is used in case neither of them is defined.
.TP
.B mm_local_charset
Charset used for reading and displaying articles; replaces \fBmm_charset\fP.
Conversion between \fBmm_local_charset\fP and \fBmm_network_charset\fP is
done via
.BR iconv (3),
if this function is not available on your system this option is disabled.
.TP
.B mm_network_charset
Charset used for posting and MIME headers; replaces \fBmm_charset\fP.
Conversion between \fBmm_network_charset\fP and \fBmm_local_charset\fP is
done via
.BR iconv (3),
if this function is not available on your system this option is disabled.
.TP
.B newnews
These are internal timers used by
.BR tin (1)
to keep track of new newsgroups. Do not change them unless you understand
what they are for.
.TP
.B news_headers_to_display
Which news headers you wish to see. If you want to see _all_ the headers,
place an '*' as this value. This is the only way a wildcard can be used.
If you enter 'X-' as the value, you will see all headers beginning
with 'X-' (like X-Alan or X-Pape). You can list more than one by delimiting
with spaces. Not defining anything turns off this option.
.TP
.B news_headers_to_not_display
Same as \fBnews_headers_to_display\fP except it denotes the opposite. An
example of using both options might be if you thought X- headers were A Good
Thing(tm), but thought Alan and Pape were miscreants... well then you would
do something like this:
\fBnews_headers_to_display=X-\fP
\fBnews_headers_to_not_display=X-Alan X-Pape\fP
Not defining anything turns off this option.
.TP
.B news_quote_format
Format of quote line when posting/following up an article (%A=Address,
%D=Date, %F=Addr+Name, %G=Groupname, %M=Message-Id, %N=Name). Default is "%F
wrote:"
.TP
.B pgdn_goto_next
If ON the Page Down keys will goto the next article when pressed at the end
of a message
.TP
.B pos_first_unread
If ON put cursor at first unread article in group otherwise at last article.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B post_8bit_header
Allows 8bit characters unencoded in the header of news article. Default is
OFF. Only enacted if \fBpost_mime_encoding\fP is also set to 8bit. In a
number of local hierarchies where 8bit characters are used, using unencoded
(raw) 8bit characters in header is acceptable and sometimes even recommended
so that you need to check the convention adopted in the local hierarchy of
your interest to determine what to do with this and
\fBpost_mime_encoding\fP.
.TP
.B post_mime_encoding
MIME encoding of the body in news message, if necessary. (8bit, base64,
quoted-printable, 7bit) Default is 8bit, which leads to no encoding (or
charset conversion, i.e., local charset is posted as it is). If set to 7bit,
Chinese and Japanese text (in 8bit encodings such as EUC-CN, EUC-TW, EUC-JP,
Shift_JIS, Big5) is supposed to be converted into ISO-2022-CN/JP, but it's
NOT yet implemented. Therefore, currently 7bit has NO effect (i.e.
equivalent to 8bit) whatever MIME charset/encoding is chosen.
.TP
.B post_process_view
If ON, then
.BR tin (1)
will start an appropriate viewer program to display any files that were post
processed and uudecoded. The program is determined using the mailcap file.
.TP
.B post_process_type
This specifies the default type of post processing to perform on saved
articles. The following types of processing are allowed:
.in +.5i
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emnone.
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emunpacking of multi-part shar files (shell archives).
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emunpacking of multi-part uuencoded files.
.in -.5i
.TP
.B print_header
If ON, then the full article header is sent to the printer. Otherwise only
the ''Subject:'' and ''From:'' fields are output. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B process_only_unread
If ON only save/print/pipe/mail unread articles (tagged articles excepted).
Default is ON.
.TP
.B prompt_followupto
If ON show empty ''Followup-To:'' header when editing an article
.TP
.B quote_chars
The character used in quoting included text to article followups and mail
replies. The '_' character represents a blank character and is replaced
with ' ' when read. Default is '>_'.
.\" FIXME - document %s
.TP
.B quote_empty_lines
If ON quote empty lines, too. Default is ON.
.TP
.B quote_regex
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching lines are shown in \fBcol_quote\fR. If \fBquote_regex\fR is blank,
then
.BR tin (1)
uses a builtin default for this.
.TP
.B quote_regex2
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching lines are shown in \fBcol_quote2\fR. If \fBquote_regex2\fR is
blank, then
.BR tin (1)
uses a builtin default for this.
.TP
.B quote_regex3
A regular expression that will be applied when reading articles. All
matching lines are shown in \fBcol_quote3\fR. If \fBquote_regex3\fR is blank,
then
.BR tin (1)
uses a builtin default for this.
.TP
.B quote_signatures
If ON quote signatures, too.
.TP
.B reread_active_file_secs
The news active file is reread at regular intervals to show if any new news
has arrived. Default is 1200. Setting this to 0 will disable this feature.
.TP
.B save_to_mmdf_mailbox
Allows articles to be saved to a MMDF style mailbox instead of
.BR mbox (5)
format.
Default is OFF unless reading news on SCO Unix which uses MMDF by default.
.TP
.B show_author
.in +.5i
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emNone (0) only the ''Subject:'' line will be displayed.
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emAddr (1) ''Subject:'' line & the address part of the ''From:'' line are
dis
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emName (2) ''Subject:'' line & the authors full name part of the ''From:''
li
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emBoth (3) ''Subject:'' line & all of the ''From:'' line are displayed.
.in -.5i
Default is 2, authors full name.
.TP
.B show_description
If ON show a short group description text after newsgroup name at the group
selection level. The ''\fB-d\fP'' commandline flag will override the setting
and turn descriptions off. The text used is taken from the
\fI$NEWSLIBDIR/newsgroups\fR file. Default is ON.
.TP
.B show_last_line_prev_page
The last line of the previous page will be displayed as the first line of
next page. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B show_lines
Show number of lines of first unread article in thread listing (ON/OFF).
.TP
.B show_only_unread
If ON show only new/unread articles otherwise show all articles. Default is
ON.
.TP
.B show_only_unread_groups
If ON show only subscribed to groups that contain unread articles. Default
is OFF.
.TP
.B show_signatures
If OFF don't show signatures when displaying articles.
.TP
.B sigdashes
If ON prepend the signature with sigdashes. Default is ON.
.TP
.B signature_repost
If ON add signature to reposted articles.
.TP
.B sort_article_type
This specifies how articles should be sorted. The following sort
types are allowed:
.in +.5i
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emdon't sort articles (none=0).
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emsort articles by ''Subject:'' field (descending=1 & ascending=2).
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emsort articles by ''From:'' field (descending=3 & ascending=4).
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emsort articles by ''Date:'' field (descending=5 & ascending=6).
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emsort articles by filtering score (descending=7 & ascending=8).
.in -.5i
Sort by ascending Date (6) is the default.
.TP
.B sort_threads_type
This specifies how threads will be sorted. The following sort
types are allowed:
.in +.5i
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emdon't sort articles (none=0).
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(emsort threads by filtering score (descending=1 & ascending=2).
.in -.5i
Sort by descending Score (1) is the default.
.TP
.B spamtrap_warning_addresses
Set this option to a list of comma-separated strings to be warned if you are
replying to an article by mail where the e-mail address contains one of
these strings. The matching is case-insensitive.
.TP
.B space_goto_next_unread
SPACE normally acts as a Page Down key and has no effect at the end of an
article. If this option is turned ON the SPACE command will goto the next
unread article when the end of the article is reached (\fBrn\fP (1)-style
pager).
.TP
.B start_editor_offset
Set ON if the editor used for posting, follow-ups and bug reports has the
capability of starting and positioning the cursor at a specified line within
a file. Default is ON.
.TP
.B strip_blanks
Strips the blanks from the end of each line therefore speeding up the
display when reading on a slow terminal or via modem. Default is ON.
.TP
.B strip_bogus
Bogus groups are groups that are present in your \fI.newsrc\fR file that
no longer exist on the news server. There are 3 options. 0 means do
nothing & always keep bogus groups. 1 means bogus groups will be
permanently removed. 2 means that bogus groups will appear on the Group
Selection Menu, prefixed with a 'D'. This allows you to unsubscribe
from them as and when you wish. Default is 0 (Always Keep).
.TP
.B strip_newsrc
If ON, then unsubscribed groups will be permanently removed from
your \fI.newsrc\fR file. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B tab_after_X_selection
If enabled will automatically goto the first unread article after having
selected all hot articles and threads with the command at group index
level. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B tab_goto_next_unread
If enabled pressing <TAB> at the article viewer level will goto the next
unread article immediately instead of first paging through the current one.
Default is ON.
.TP
.B thread_articles
Defines which threading method to use. The choices are:
0) Don't thread, 1) Thread on Subject only 2) Thread on References only,
3) Thread on References then Subject (default).
It's also possible to set the threading type on a per group basis by setting
the group attribute variable \fBthread_arts\fR to 0 - 3 in the file
\fI$HOME/.tin/attributes\fR.
.TP
.B thread_catchup_on_exit
If ON catchup group/thread when leaving with the left arrow key. Default is
ON.
.TP
.B unlink_article
If ON remove \fI~/.article\fR after posting. Default is ON.
.TP
.B use_builtin_inews
Allows the builtin NNTP inews to be enabled/disabled. This has no effect
when reading/posting direct to local spool where external
.BR inews (1)
will always be used. Default is ON (enabled).
.TP
.B use_getart_limit
If enabled
.BR tin (1)
fetches max. \fBgetart_limit\fP articles/group from the server. Default
is OFF.
.TP
.B use_color
If enabled
.BR tin (1)
uses ANSI-colors. Default is OFF.
.TP
.B use_mailreader_i
Interactive mailreader: if ON mailreader will be invoked earlier for reply
so you can use more of its features (eg. MIME, pgp, ...) this option has to
suit \fBdefault_mailer_format\fP
.TP
.B use_metamail
If ON metamail can/will be used to display MIME articles. Default is ON.
This might become obsolete.
.TP
.B use_mouse
Allows the mouse key support in a
.BR xterm (1x)
to be enabled/disabled.
Default is OFF.
.TP
.B wildcard
Allows you to select how
.BR tin (1)
matches strings. The default is 0 and uses the wildmat notation, which is
how this has traditionally been handled. Setting this to 1 allows you to use
.BR perl (1)
compatible regular expressions
.BR pcre (3).
You will probably want to update your filter
file if you use this regularly. NB: Newsgroup names will always be matched
using the wildmat notation.
.TP
.B word_h_display_marks
Should the leading and ending stars and dashes also be displayed,
even when they are highlighting marks?
.in +.5i
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(em 0 = no
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(em 1 = yes, display mark
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(em 2 = print a space instead
.ti -\w'\(em'u
\(em 3 = print a space, but only in signatures
.in -.5i
.TP
.B word_highlight
Enable word highlighting. See \fBword_h_display_marks\fP for the options
available is this is enabled.
.TP
.B xpost_quote_format
Format is the same as for \fBnews_quote_format\fP, this is used when
answering to a crossposting to several groups with no ''Followup-To:'' set
.RE
.PP

.IR /etc/tin/tin.defaults
.sp
.RS
Yet another global configuration file with "\fIvariable\fR=\fIvalue\fR"
pairs. This one is for the more general options which usualy can't be
controlled via \fI${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/etc"}/tinrc\fR and/or
\fI${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.tin/tinrc\fR like resetting (to override the
build in default) the \fInewslibdir\fR.
.TP
.B domainname
Sets a global domain name used in From lines
.TP
.B organization
Defines the name of your organization. \fB$ORGANIZATION\fP overrides any
specified value.
.TP
.B newslibdir
Defines the default place for some configuration files, common values are
\fI/usr/lib/news\fR, \fI/var/lib/news\fR, \fI/usr/local/lib/news\fR or
\fI/news/db\fR. \fB$TIN_LIBDIR\fP overrides any specified value.
.TP
.B bugaddress
Defines the email address to which users can send bugreports using tin's
builtin function. The default points to a developers mailing list located
at tin.org. You might want to change this address to one of your local
administration if you want to deal with your lusers problems on your own.
\fB$BUG_ADDRESS\fP overrides any specified value.
.TP
.B inewsdir
Defines the directory containing of the
.BR inews (1)
executable
.TP
.B mm_charset
Default charset to be used in MIME's Content-Type header. \fB$MM_CHARSET\fP
overrides any specified value.
.TP
.B post_mime_encoding
Default encoding sheme use in MIME articles. 8bit might be the best value.
.TP
.B mail_mime_encoding
Default encoding sheme use in MIME letters. quoted-printable is a good
choice here.
.TP
.B disable_gnksa_domain_check
Allow unregistered top level domains
.TP
.B disable_sender
Don't generate a ''Sender:''-header. This has no effect if
\fBuse_builtin_inews\fP is OFF.
.TP
.B spooldir
Base of your newsspool (Bnews, Cnews and INN tradspool style), common values
are \fI/var/spool/news\fR, \fI/usr/spool/news\fR, \fI/news/spool\fR.
\fB$TIN_SPOOLDIR\fP overrides any specified value.
.TP
.B overviewdir
Base of your NOV database
.BR newsoverview (5)
(tradspool style; might be the same dir as
\fIspooldir\fR), common values are \fI/var/spool/overview\fR,
\fI/usr/spool/overview\fR, \fI/news/overview\fR. \fB$TIN_NOVROOTDIR\fP
overrides any specified value.
.TP
.B overviewfile
Name of a single overview file, common values are \fI.overview\fR,
\fIover.view\fR.
.TP
.B activefile
Full pathname of your newssystem's active file; usually the active file
resides in \fInewslibdir\fR and is named \fIactive\fR, so you only have
to change this setting if your configuration differs. \fB$TIN_ACTIVEFILE\fP
overrides any specified value.
.TP
.B activetimesfile
Full pathname of your newssystem's active.times file; usually the
active.times file is \fInewslibdir\fR, so you only have to change this
setting if your configuration differs.
.TP
.B newsgroupsfile
Full pathname of your newssystem's newsgroups file; usually the newsgroups
file is in \fInewslibdir\fR, so you only have to change this setting if your
configuration differs.
.TP
.B subscriptionsfile
Full pathname of your newssystem's subscriptions file; usually the
subscriptions file is in \fInewslibdir\fR, so you only have to change this
setting if your configuration differs.
.RE
.PP

.IR /usr/local/share/locale/${LC_MESSAGES}/LC_MESSAGES/tin.mo
.sp
.RS
translation into language specified in \fB$LC_ALL\fP, \fB$LC_MESSAGES\fP or
\fB$LANG\fP
.RE
.PP

.\" tin uses inns old (pre 2.x) Path convention.
.\" as with inn >= 2.2.x getting more and more popular
.\" we should think about checking for the new Paths
.\" (described shown below).
.IR ${TIN_ACTIVEFILE-"${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/db"}/active"}
.sp
.RS
This file lists the newsgroups that the local site receives. Each newsgroup
should be listed only once. Each line specifies one group; within each
newsgroup, articles are assigned unique names, which are monotonically
increasing numbers.
.sp
If an article is posted to newsgroups not mentioned in this file, those
newsgroups are ignored.
.\" IIRC tin issues a warning in that case
If no valid newsgroups are specified, the article is rejected.
.sp
Each line consists of four space-separated fields "\fIname\fR \fIhimark\fR
\fIlomark\fR \fIflags\fR".
.TP
.B name
is the name of the newsgroup
.TP
.B himark
is the highest article number that has been used in that newsgroup
.TP
.B lowmark
is the lowest article number in the group; this number is not guaranteed to
be accurate, and should only be taken to be a hint. Note that because of
article cancellations, there may be gaps in the numbering sequence. If the
lowest article number is greater then the highest article number, then there
are no articles in the newsgroup.
.TP
.B flags
can be one of those
.RS
.TP
.B y
local postings are allowed
.TP
.B n
no local postings are allowed, only remote ones
.TP
.B m
the group is moderated and all postings must be approved
.TP
.B j
articles in this group are not kept, but only passed on
.TP
.B x
articles cannot be posted to this newsgroup
.TP
.B =foo.bar
articles are locally filed into the ''foo.bar'' group
.RE
.TP
.BR tin (1)
only only tries to read the file if you read directly from the local spool,
if you read news via NNTP,
.BR tin (1)
uses the LIST (\fBRFC977\fP) command instead.
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/db"}/active.times
.sp
.RS
This file provides a chronological record of when newsgroups are created. It
is normally updated by the local newsserver (i.e
.BR innd (8))
whenever a new group is created. Each line consist of three space-separated
fields "\fIname\fR \fItime\fR \fIcreator\fR".
.TP
.B name
is the name of the newsgroup
.TP
.B time
is the time when the group was created, expressed as the number of seconds
since the epoch.
.TP
.B creator
is the electronic mail address of the person who created the group.
.TP
.BR tin (1)
only only tries to read the file if you read directly from the local spool,
if you read news via NNTP,
.BR tin (1)
uses the NEWGROUPS (\fBRFC977\fP) command instead.
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/db"}/newsgroups
.sp
.RS
This file provides shot descriptions of each newsgroup. It is normally
updated by the local newsserver (i.e
.BR innd (8))
whenever a new group is created. Each line consist of two tab-separated
fields "\fIgroup.name\fR	\fIone-line description\fR".
.TP
.B group.name
is the name of the newsgroup
.TP
.B one-line description
is a short single-line description of the group
.TP
.BR tin (1)
only only tries to read the file if you read directly from the local spool,
if you read news via NNTP,
.BR tin (1)
uses the LIST NEWSGROUPS (\fBRFC2980\fP) command instead.
.RE
.PP

.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/db"}/overview.fmt
.\" is the Path correct? or is it /news/etc/overview.fmt
.sp
.RS
This file specifies the organization of the news overview database (see
also
.BR newsoverview (5)).
The order of lines in this file is important; it determines the order in
which the fields will appear in the database.
.BR tin (1)
currently only understands the order specified in \fBRFC2980\fP. See also
.BR overview.fmt (5).
.BR tin (1)
only tries to read the file if you read directly from the local spool,
if you read news via NNTP,
.BR tin (1)
uses the LIST OVERVIEW.FMT (\fBRFC2980\fP) command instead.
.RE
.PP


.IR ${TIN_LIBDIR-"/news/db"}/subscriptions
.\" is the Path correct? or is it /news/etc/subscriptions
.sp
.RS
This file contains a list of newsgroups - one per line - which the client
should subscribe to when the user has no ${TIN_HOMEDIR-"$HOME"}/.newsrc for
the newsserver.
.BR tin (1)
only tries to read the file if you read directly from the local spool,
if you read news via NNTP,
.BR tin (1)
uses the LIST SUBSCRIPTIONS (\fBRFC2980\fP) command instead.
.RE
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR elm (1),
.BR inews (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR metamail (1)
.BR perl (1),
.BR rn (1),
.BR tin (1),
.BR xterm (1x),
.BR iconv (3),
.BR pcre (3),
.BR system (3),
.BR mailcap (4),
.BR active (5),
.BR mbox (5),
.BR newsoverview (5),
.BR overview.fmt (5),
.BR innd (8),
.BR RFC977 ,
.BR RFC1036 ,
.BR RFC1524 ,
.BR RFC2045 ,
.BR RFC2046 ,
.BR RFC2047 ,
.BR RFC2048 ,
.BR RFC2822 ,
.BR RFC2980
